Do you feel that communication with AI
seems to always be separated into something?
Today, let's talk about
how to master such a detailed art
to turn AI from a tool that only listens to instructions
to become the strongest thinking partner around you.
Have you ever had this experience?
It's just that you got into your mind and asked a question.
As a result, the answer given by AI
is completely wrong.
You ask Dong, he answers Qi.
The whole thing is super speechless, right?
Don't worry, you're not alone.
The difference in communication
is the core problem we're going to solve today.
What should we do?
The key is that
we have to build a communication bridge
between the ideas in your head
and the execution capabilities of AI.
And the technology to build this bridge
is the core ability we're going to talk about today.
That's right, we call this core ability description.
But wait a minute,
this is not just as simple as writing a prompt as we usually say.
It's actually a more comprehensive communication technique
that allows us to accurately explain tasks to AI
and provide him with the background information he needs.
Then, in the entire interaction process,
guide him to achieve the goal we want.
Is it going to be difficult to master this art?
In fact, to put it bluntly,
you only need to grasp three key concepts.
Really, just these three.
And once you understand,
the way you interact with AI
will be completely different.
Okay, what are these three pillars?
They are
First, the product description of the product produced by force.
Second, the process description of the guidance method.
And third,
this is very interesting,
the performance description of the setting atmosphere.
As long as you cover these three pillars tightly,
your communication with AI will be stable.
Okay, let's start with the first one.
How exactly do you want to accurately describe what you want?
This is the so-called product description.
To put it simply,
the ability of product description
is that you have to be able to clearly define
what kind of product you want AI to create in the end.
Not just roughly,
but very accurately.
How big is the difference?
Come on, let's imagine
you tell AI,
hey, help me prepare dinner.
This is too vague.
How does he know what you want to eat?
But if you change the way you say,
hey, I want to make Italian chicken noodles.
Give me a recipe.
You have to have all the ingredients
and super detailed cooking steps on it.
Look, is this super clear?
This is a 100% product description.
So the point is,
please don't let AI guess what you want.
You have to tell him clearly,
hey, what is the background of this job?
What do you want him to do?
Make it clear step by step.
What kind of format do you want to use in the end?
Wordang or簡報?
Then who wants to see this thing?
Is it for the boss or the client?
What kind of style do you want in the end?
More shocking or more lively?
These things have to be said clearly.
Okay, it's not enough to know what you want.
Sometimes more importantly,
how do you guide AI to do?
This brings us to the second pillar,
the process description.
The process description,
in private,
is to guide AI
on how to do this thing.
Remember, sometimes
give AI a map,
that is, that process,
will be more important
than you just tell him the end,
more important,
and more efficient.
How to guide?
There are probably several ways.
You can give him a manual,
which is a guide to some major directions.
Or you can give him a recipe,
telling him in detail
what to do first,
what to do second.
You can even show it to him in person
and use some examples
to let him learn your method.
Think about it.
Although AI's knowledge library is wide,
but he doesn't know the unique situation you have.
So you can tell him
I have some specific information here,
please use these to analyze.
Or you have to deal with these problems
in the order after.
Or I need you to use
a specific analysis style,
or we have a standard
working process in our company,
you have to follow it.
Tell you what,
take some time to talk about these details.
The result will be much worse.
Okay, now we come to the third,
which is also the most
um,
the most delicate,
the most interesting pillar.
How to set the atmosphere of your interaction with AI?
We call it performance description.
If you can only remember one sentence in today's content,
then I hope it's this sentence.
AI tools are not database,
nor automatic vending machines.
They are interactive systems
that have different behavior modes
because of the different circumstances you give them.
Really, it's very similar to people.
This is the most important part of performance description.
You have to define the behavior mode
when AI interacts with you.
In other words,
you don't just tell him what to do,
how to do,
you also tell him
what role you are going to play today.
So next time you open AI,
you can ask yourself
what kind of thinking partner do I need now?
Do I need a partner who will challenge me and refute me?
Or do I need someone who is obedient and follows me?
I want him to give me super detailed information
or
just focus on the point.
I need him to explain the thinking process of each step
or just give me the answer directly.
You see,
these choices will create
completely different AI partners.
Okay, we've finished reading the three pillars.
When you combine the three descriptions
of the product, process, and performance
that you just mentioned,
what magical things will happen?
The final result is
you turn AI from
an assistant you know
who is very common, like a can,
into a person who is completely
a person who knows you
and can help you solve those super complicated problems.
A super powerful tool.
So this brings a question that is worth thinking about.
After listening to these today,
what kind of thinking partner
do you want to create first?